# CHAPTER 26 VM ENTRIES

## 26.6 EVENT INJECTION
If the valid bit in the VM-entry interruption-information field
(see Section 24.8.3) is 1, VM entry causes an event to be delivered
(or made pending) after all components of guest state have been
loaded (including MSRs) and after the VM-execution control fields
have been established.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
如果VM-entry interruption-information 字段中的valid bit (请看Section 24
.8.3) 为1。VM entry 会在所有的 guest state的组件都被加载(包括MSRs）
和VM-execution control fields 都已经被 established 后, 导致event被
deliver（或者 使其 pending)。
</font>

* If the interruption type in the field is 0 (external interrupt),
2 (non-maskable interrupt); 3 (hardware exception), 4 (software 
interrupt), 5 (privileged software exception), or 6 (software
exception), the event is delivered as described in Section 26.6.1.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
如果字段中的interruption type 为0, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6，event 像在 Section 
26.6.1 描述的那样被 deliver。
</font>
* If the interruption type in the field is 7 (other event) and
the vector field is 0, an MTF VM exit is pending after VM entry.
See Section 26.6.2.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
如果字段中的interrupt type 为7 (其他event) 并且vector 字段为0,
在VM entry后，在VM entry后，MTF exting将会pending。请查看
26.6.2
</font>

### 26.6.1 Vectored-Event Injection
VM entry delivers an injected vectored event within the guest
context established by VM entry. This means that delivery occurs
after all components of guest state have been loaded (including
MSRs) and after the VM-execution control fields have been established.
The event is delivered using the vector in that field to select
a descriptor in the IDT. Since event injection occurs after loading
IDTR from the guest-state area, this is the guest IDT.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
VM entry 在由VM entry 建立的guest 上下文中 deliver injected vector。
这意味着本次的delivery 发生在所有guest state 组件被已经被Load之后
（包括MSRs）并且在VM-execution control field 被 established 之后。
使用该字段中的 vector 来选择 IDT中的描述符来 deliver event。因此event
injection 发生在 load IDTR from guest-state area 之后，这是 guest 的IDT。
</font>

Section 26.6.1.1 provides details of vectored-event injection.
In general, the event is delivered **exactly as if**<sup>就好像</sup>it had been 
generated normally. If event delivery encounters a nested exception
(for example, a general-protection exception because the vector
indicates a descriptor beyond the IDT limit), the exception
bitmap is consulted using the vector of that exception:
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
Section 26.6.1.1 提供了 vectored-event injection的细节。一般的，
事件被 delivered 就好象它通过正常途径生成的一样。如果 event delivery
发生了一个 nested exceptions (例如，因为vector 指示的描述符超过了IDT
的限制 而产生的 generated-protection exception), 使用该exception 的向
量查询exception bitmap:
</font>

* If the bit for the nested exception is 0, the nested exception
is delivered normally. If the nested exception is benign, it 
is delivered through the IDT. If it is contributory or a page
fault, a double fault may be generated, depending on the nature<sup>性质</sup>
of the event whose delivery encountered the nested exception.
See Chapter 6, “Interrupt 8—Double Fault Exception (#DF)” in 
Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 3A.2
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
如果nested exception对应的位是0, nested exception将被正常 deliver.
如果他是 contributory 或者是一个 page fault, 将可能会生成一个 double fault,
取决于delivery过程中遇到的nested exception的性质。请看 Intel sdm Volume
3A.2 中Chapter 6, "Interrupt 8-Double Fault Exception(#DF) 
</font>
* If the bit for the nested exception is 1, a VM exit occurs.
Section 26.6.1.2 details cases in which event injection causes
a VM exit.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
如果nested exception 对应的bit为1, 会触发VM exit。Section 26.6.1.2
将讨论event injection 导致VM exit的情形。
</font>

#### 26.6.1.1 Details of Vectored-Event Injection
The event-injection process is controlled by the contents of 
the VM-entry interruption information field (format given in 
Table 24-16), the VM-entry exception error-code field, and the
VM-entry instruction-length field. The following items provide
details of the process:
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
event-injection 处理过程是受 VM-entry interruption information 字段
（格式在Table 24-16中给定)，VM-entry exception error-code 字段，
和VM-entry instruction-length 字段。下面的条目提供处理的细节:
</font>
* The value pushed on the stack for RFLAGS is generally that 
which was loaded from the guest-state area. The value pushed 
for the RF flag is not modified based on the type of event being
delivered. However, the pushed value of RFLAGS may be modified
if a software interrupt is being injected into a guest that will
be in virtual-8086 mode (see below). After RFLAGS is pushed on
the stack, the value in the RFLAGS register is modified as is
done normally when delivering an event through the IDT.
<br/>
<font color=gray face="黑体" size=2>
RFLAGS
</font>

•The instruction pointer that is pushed on the stack depends on the type of event and whether nested exceptions
occur during its delivery. The term current guest RIP refers to the value to be loaded from the guest-state
area. The value pushed is determined as follows:3
— If VM entry successfully injects (with no nested exception) an event with interruption type external
interrupt, NMI, or hardware exception, the current guest RIP is pushed on the stack.
— If VM entry successfully injects (with no nested exception) an event with interruption type software
interrupt, privileged software exception, or software exception, the current guest RIP is incremented by the
VM-entry instruction length before being pushed on the stack.
— If VM entry encounters an exception while injecting an event and that exception does not cause a VM exit,
the current guest RIP is pushed on the stack regardless of event type or VM-entry instruction length. If the
encountered exception does cause a VM exit that saves RIP, the saved RIP is current guest RIP.
•If the deliver-error-code bit (bit 11) is set in the VM-entry interruption-information field, the contents of the
VM-entry exception error-code field is pushed on the stack as an error code would be pushed during delivery of
an exception.
•DR6, DR7, and the IA32_DEBUGCTL MSR are not modified by event injection, even if the event has vector 1
(normal deliveries of debug exceptions, which have vector 1, do update these registers).
•If VM entry is injecting a software interrupt and the guest will be in virtual-8086 mode (RFLAGS.VM = 1), no
general-protection exception can occur due to RFLAGS.IOPL < 3. A VM monitor should check RFLAGS.IOPL
before injecting such an event and, if desired, inject a general-protection exception instead of a software
interrupt.
•If VM entry is injecting a software interrupt and the guest will be in virtual-8086 mode with virtual-8086 mode
extensions (RFLAGS.VM = CR4.VME = 1), event delivery is subject to VME-based interrupt redirection based
on the software interrupt redirection bitmap in the task-state segment (TSS) as follows:
— If bit n in the bitmap is clear (where n is the number of the software interrupt), the interrupt is directed to
an 8086 program interrupt handler: the processor uses a 16-bit interrupt-vector table (IVT) located at
linear address zero. If the value of RFLAGS.IOPL is less than 3, the following modifications are made to the
value of RFLAGS that is pushed on the stack: IOPL is set to 3, and IF is set to the value of VIF.
— If bit n in the bitmap is set (where n is the number of the software interrupt), the interrupt is directed to a
protected-mode interrupt handler. (In other words, the injection is treated as described in the next item.)
In this case, the software interrupt does not invoke such a handler if RFLAGS.IOPL < 3 (a general-
protection exception occurs instead). However, as noted above, RFLAGS.IOPL cannot cause an injected
software interrupt to cause such a exception. Thus, in this case, the injection invokes a protected-mode
interrupt handler independent of the value of RFLAGS.IOPL.
Injection of events of other types are not subject to this redirection.
•If VM entry is injecting a software interrupt (not redirected as described above) or software exception, privilege
checking is performed on the IDT descriptor being accessed as would be the case for executions of INT n, INT3,
or INTO (the descriptor’s DPL cannot be less than CPL). There is no checking of RFLAGS.IOPL, even if the guest
will be in virtual-8086 mode. Failure of this check may lead to a nested exception. Injection of an event with
interruption type external interrupt, NMI, hardware exception, and privileged software exception, or with inter-
ruption type software interrupt and being redirected as described above, do not perform these checks.
•If VM entry is injecting a non-maskable interrupt (NMI) and the “virtual NMIs” VM-execution control is 1,
virtual-NMI blocking is in effect after VM entry.
•The transition causes a last-branch record to be logged if the LBR bit is set in the IA32_DEBUGCTL MSR. This is
true even for events such as debug exceptions, which normally clear the LBR bit before delivery.
•The last-exception record MSRs (LERs) may be updated based on the setting of the LBR bit in the
IA32_DEBUGCTL MSR. Events such as debug exceptions, which normally clear the LBR bit before they are
delivered, and therefore do not normally update the LERs, may do so as part of VM-entry event injection.
•If injection of an event encounters a nested exception, the value of the EXT bit (bit 0) in any error code for that
nested exception is determined as follows:
— If event being injected has interruption type external interrupt, NMI, hardware exception, or privileged
software exception and encounters a nested exception (but does not produce a double fault), the error code
for that exception sets the EXT bit.
— If event being injected is a software interrupt or a software exception and encounters a nested exception,
the error code for that exception clears the EXT bit.
— If event delivery encounters a nested exception and delivery of that exception encounters another
exception (but does not produce a double fault), the error code for that exception sets the EXT bit.
— If a double fault is produced, the error code for the double fault is 0000H (the EXT bit is clear).

#### 26.6.1.2 VM Exits During Event Injection

An event being injected never causes a VM exit directly regardless of the settings of the VM-execution controls. For
example, setting the “NMI exiting” VM-execution control to 1 does not cause a VM exit due to injection of an NMI.
However, the event-delivery process may lead to a VM exit:
•If the vector in the VM-entry interruption-information field identifies a task gate in the IDT, the attempted task
switch may cause a VM exit just as it would had the injected event occurred during normal execution in VMX
non-root operation (see Section 25.4.2).
•If event delivery encounters a nested exception, a VM exit may occur depending on the contents of the
exception bitmap (see Section 25.2).
•If event delivery generates a double-fault exception (due to a nested exception); the logical processor
encounters another nested exception while attempting to call the double-fault handler; and that exception does
not cause a VM exit due to the exception bitmap; then a VM exit occurs due to triple fault (see Section 25.2).
•If event delivery injects a double-fault exception and encounters a nested exception that does not cause a
VM exit due to the exception bitmap, then a VM exit occurs due to triple fault (see Section 25.2).
•If the “virtualize APIC accesses” VM-execution control is 1 and event delivery generates an access to the APIC-
access page, that access is treated as described in Section 29.4 and may cause a VM exit.1
If the event-delivery process does cause a VM exit, the processor state before the VM exit is determined just as it
would be had the injected event occurred during normal execution in VMX non-root operation. If the injected event
directly accesses a task gate that cause a VM exit or if the first nested exception encountered causes a VM exit,
information about the injected event is saved in the IDT-vectoring information field (see Section 27.2.4).

#### 26.6.1.3 Event Injection for VM Entries to Real-Address Mode
If VM entry is loading CR0.PE with 0, any injected vectored event is delivered as would normally be done in real-
address mode.2 Specifically, VM entry uses the vector provided in the VM-entry interruption-information field to
select a 4-byte entry from an interrupt-vector table at the linear address in IDTR.base. Further details are provided
in Section 15.1.4 in Volume 3A of the IA-32 Intel® Architecture Software Developer’s Manual.
Because bit 11 (deliver error code) in the VM-entry interruption-information field must be 0 if CR0.PE will be 0 after
VM entry (see Section 26.2.1.3), vectored events injected with CR0.PE = 0 do not push an error code on the stack.
This is consistent with event delivery in real-address mode.
If event delivery encounters a fault (due to a violation of IDTR.limit or of SS.limit), the fault is treated as if it had
occurred during event delivery in VMX non-root operation. Such a fault may lead to a VM exit as discussed in
Section 26.6.1.2.

### 26.6.2 Injection of Pending MTF VM Exits
If the interruption type in the VM-entry interruption-information field is 7 (other event) and the vector field is 0,
VM entry causes an MTF VM exit to be pending on the instruction boundary following VM entry. This is the case
even if the “monitor trap flag” VM-execution control is 0. See Section 25.5.2 for the treatment of pending MTF
VM exits.
